The President: Well,
thank you very much.
We appreciate it.
And I'll be also speaking,
at three o'clock today, a
little bit more about
what's happening with this
incredible journey and
what we're doing with
regard to bringing down
taxes -- the largest
tax cut ever.
But I appreciate you
being here today.
I want to thank the
incredible members of the
House and the Senate, who
have been working so hard.
We're very, very close to
a historic legislative
victory, the likes of
which rarely has this
country seen.
I think I can say, Kevin
and Orrin, that we're
getting very close.
And I know a lot of the
folks that we'd like to
have here -- we said, if
you have your choice, stay
back and get it done.
Right?
They're all working and
negotiating some final
points, but we're
very, very close.
This bill is vital to the
American people
for many reasons.
First of all, it's going
to have a tax cut, the
likes of which we haven't
seen for, not only
business but for the
working families
of our country.
It's really a tax cut
based on jobs and also
very good for companies,
which also means jobs.
The typical family of four
earning $75,000 will
see an income tax
cut of $2,000.
So that's $2,000 in their
pocket, additional to
spend on whatever they
want to spend, or they
could save the money also.
You do have a lot of
families in the old days
-- they saved money.
But they will be saving
it in many cases.
Second, the bill is going
to cut taxes for American
businesses -- both big
ones and small ones -- so
that they can grow, hire,
and compete all
around the world.
Right now they're paying
35 percent, and that's the
highest in the
industrialized world -- in
many cases, by far.
And we'll be bringing that
down to a number that will
be extremely impressive
to a lot of people.
I don't think I'll give
them the surprise yet,
Kevin, right?
Representative
Brady: Yes, sir.
The President: Maybe
I'll hold the surprise.
But I think you'll be
very happy with it.
I think the businesses
will be very happy.
And we'll be able to
compete all
over the world.
Third, we're simplifying
our broken system.
It's so complicated that
nobody can figure it out.
Tax returns that are very,
very big and large -- and
they have to go out and
hire companies to do them.
So we're fixing
the system.
Finally, the plan is going
to bring trillions of
dollars back into the
United States, money
that's offshore.
And you've been hearing
me say $2.5 trillion
for years.
Well, 2.5 has grown, and
it's going to be a lot
more than that --
probably $4 trillion.
It could be even
higher than that.
We don't even know.
It's so much money, we
don't even know
how much it is.
But you look at the great
companies -- Apple
and so many others.
They have billions of
dollars overseas that they
want to bring back.
Now they're going to be
able to bring it back, and
we'll be spending that
money, and they'll
be spending that
money right here.
And it will be jobs and
lots of other good things.
While the media has
focused on the differences
between the House and the
Senate bills, I can only
tell you that we have
very, very talented
representatives
right here.
And I think I can say,
Orrin, that
we're very close.
Right?
Senator Hatch: We are.
The President: We are
very, very close.
Senator Hatch:
We'll get it done.
The President: And I want
to thank Senator Orrin Hatch.
He's been incredible.
And Kevin Brady
-- incredible.
You guys have been just
really, really amazing.
Although I shouldn't
say that until we sign.
(laughter)
We've been there
too many times.
Let's count
the vote first.
Right?
(laughter)
But I want to thank my
whole team, Gary and
Steve and everybody.
The whole team has been
really something special.
And, Diane, thank you
very much for everything.
We appreciate it.
So we're very close
to getting it done.
We're very
close to voting.
And our economy, as you
know, has surged from
where it is when
I took it over.
We were having an economy
that was going in the
wrong direction.
They can say all they
want about the last
administration, or
even administrations.
This country was going in
the wrong direction, from
the economic standpoint.
And you saw where it was
-- one of the early times
we heard about 1 percent
and 1.2 percent, and you
were going down.
401(k) s right now --
I met last
week in New York City with
a very, very fine
group of policemen.
And they were all so happy
about their 401(k)s.
They feel like they're
geniuses because, in one
case, he said,
I'm up 39 percent.
I see all the guys
carrying the
booms are smiling.
Are you up, too?
Yes, he is.
Oh, look at him.
(laughter)
He's got that boom.
Let's see.
He's got the one that's
the highest
and the closest.
So he's a good boomer.
(laughter)
But he's got a big smile
on his face, right?
Thank you.
Thanks very much.
You know, usually with the
press -- they won't admit
it -- but he does because
he's beyond the press.
(laughter)
But I want to -- I just
want to say that people
are up 30 percent, 40
percent, 50 percent,
depending on what's in
there, and they are
very, very happy.
So we think we're going
to grow that a lot more.
We really think the
economy has a long way to
grow and it needs
the tax cut.
It needs it desperately.
And all that money is
going to be spent on
expanding businesses.
We have so many different
things in this bill that
are going to create jobs.
And for me, this is a bill
-- very simple -- it's a
massive cut for the middle
class and it's about jobs.
And the jobs are really
defined by the companies.
The companies are going to
be expanding and they're
going to be creating jobs.
You know, in education,
we're talking choice.
Well, in jobs, we're going
to be talking choice, too,
because, right now, people
go for one job and they
don't have many options.
They're going to have
plenty of options.
They're going to look at
five, six, seven jobs, and
they're going to pick
the one they want.
And wages are
starting to go up.
First time in many years,
wages now are actually
starting to go up.
So we have a lot of great
things happening, but what
really is something that,
I think, will really be
the capper is going to be
the massive tax cuts that
we're planning that
hopefully, within a very
short period of time,
we'll have
signed into law.
It will be bigger than
anything ever done
in this country.
Bigger than the Reagan
cuts, bigger than any
cuts, and it will
also be reform.
And there are also some
other things in that bill
that are very, very
big that are somewhat
unrelated, but ultimately
I think it's all related.
So I just want to thank
everybody at the table --
Mike, everybody at the
table -- for being here.
And I want to have a very
fast lunch so you
can go immediately
back and finish.
(laughter)
I actually feel very
guilty having you here.
So I want you to go back
immediately and
finish it up.
Thank you very much.
It's going to be something
very, very special.
Thank you all.
Thank you.
The Press: Mr. President,
will you support the 21
percent corporate
tax rate?
And would you sign the
current 21 percent?
The President: I would
-- yeah, I would.
We're going to see
where it ends up, but I
certainly -- it's at 35
right now, so if it got
down to 21, I would
certainly be --
I would be thrilled.
We'll see.
We have haven't set that
final figure yet, but
certainly 21 is a very
great difference.
The Press: Mr. President,
after Alabama, is it
crucial to get a vote
in the next week?
The President: I think
it's very important for
the country to get
a vote next week.
Not because we
lost a seat.
Wish we would have
gotten the seat.
A lot of Republicans feel
differently; they're very
happy with the
way it turned out.
But I would have -- as the
leader of the party, I
would have liked to
have had the seat.
I want to endorse the
people that are running.
But, I will tell you that
it's -- to me, it's very,
very -- just, very
important to
get this vote.
Not because of that, but
because of the -- and I
don't know what
the vote will be.
I don't know what exactly
the final -- we have a
margin now of two, plus
our great Vice President.
So I really -- I think
we're going to get the
vote, but I will say, we
have to get more senators
and more congressmen that
are Republicans
elected in '18.
And then you'll see a lot
more of what we're
doing right now.
The Press: How can that
loss affect your agenda
going forward?
The President: I don't
think it's going
to affect it.
I think we're doing a lot.
This is the biggest thing
that we've worked on.
This also has to do
with other subjects.
As you know, I won't
mention the subject, but
there are some subjects in
here that are very vital
to the -- beyond -- I'm
talking about beyond
pure tax and tax cuts.
But I'm just very
excited by it.
This is one of the biggest
pieces of legislation ever
signed by this country.
And I can tell you that
everybody around this
table, we are very,
very excited about it.
And thank you
all very much.
Appreciate it.